Qos 8 (#157)
SW709E19/Report: report/ChapterImplementation/QoS/QualityofService.tex

> \section{Quality of Service}

Author: Added metatext.

\subsection{Power Consumption Measurements}
The sensor device is powered by a 2000mAh 5V battery, and when using an ESP32 without the development board, and using on/sleep cycles, the battery should last at least 2 months. See \autoref{sec:sprint-log-2}

\subsection{Maximum Number of Devices Per Gateway - Scalability}
We have not conducted any tests for determining how many devices can be connected to a single gateway, and we also cannot test this since we do not have that many ESP32's to connect.
However, there are some other limiting factors that can be determined from looking at the hardware.

Wi-Fi bandwith of Raspberry Pi 3 B+ averages at 81.9 Mbits/s in perfect conditions. \cite{PiSpeed}.
Another limit of the gateway is that the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ can at most connect to about 250 devices at once. \cite{Wi-FiNetwork}.
The CPU and RAM of the Raspberry could also possible turn out to be the limiting factors.

\subsection{Scalability of Google Cloud}
Should the need arise, Google Cloud is very scaleable.

> It is possible to enable autoscale, which means that if the traffic to your virtual machine gets too high, Google Cloud will automatically add another virtual machine instance to take more of the load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to enable autoscale, which means that if the traffic to your service gets too high, Google Cloud will automatically add another instance to take more of the load.
```

The downside of this however is the cost. \cite{GCloudScaling}.

\subsection{Failures - Missing Messages}

> From a sofware point of view, the messages that get sound from the sensor device and all the way to google cloud is lossless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a sofware point of view, the messages that get send from the sensor device and all the way to Google Cloud is lossless.
```

Reviewer: Add the reason for this being true.

Reviewer: And what is a software point of veiw?

\subsection{Google IoT Core QoS}
Google IoT Core will have an uptime percentage of at least 99.9\% for their costumers as per the term of agreement.
This is not a garuantee that the uptime percentage will actually be a least 99.9\%, but in case it drops bellow that, Google will start covering part of the monthly bill for their service, which will be credited to future monthly payments. \cite{GCloudSLA}.

\subsection{MQTT QoS}
MQTT has 3 levels of quality of service.
At level 0 it is garuanteed that a specific message is delivered at most once.
However, this means that there is no garuantee that the message gets through at all.
At level 1 it is garuanteed that a specific message is delivered at least once.
This is done by the sender storing the message until it gets an acknowledgment that the message has been received.
At level 2 it is garuanteed that a specific message is delivered exactly once.
This is done by having a four part handshake between the sender and receiver.
A higher level of quality means that there is a higher garuantee that the message has been received, and that it has been received correctly.

> The downside to a higher quality of service is that it is slower. \cite{MQTTQoS}.

Reviewer: Which one are we using?

Author: Ved jeg ikke, må lige høre Morten.

Author: Bruger level 0.

\subsection{Sensor Device QoS}
\subsubsection{Reliable}

> In a production environment, the reliability of the sensor device will be lower than what it theoretically is because of outside factors like dirt, humidity, and temperature.

Reviewer: This is pointless

Author: Removed

\subsubsection{Supported Configurations}
It is possible for the user to change some of the configurations.
These configurations are: sample rate, sample duration, sleep duration.
Sample rate is the frequency at which the sensor device makes measurements. The limit for sample rate is \todo{Insert this after the test.}
Sample duration is the duration where the sensor device makes measurements. It is usually kept short in order to serve battery life.

> Sleep duration is the time between each "batch" of sampels. Sleeping is needed to conserve battery life.

Reviewer: Why is this QoS?

Reviewer: Max sample rate is the only relevant thing

Author: Having more configurations to change, gives more flexibility, which in turns means a higher quality of service. At least thats my understanding of it, and why I put it there.
